


## Checking out Weston


I remember using Weston and finding it somewhat immature and buggy. I like it but when I use it for a while I start to get annoyed by all the bugs.

Anyways I tried to experiment with Weston on my Debian desktop again. Weston was at version 1.12 on my maching and copy-paste did not do anytyhing. I tried to upgrade weston, and I had forgotten how unintuitive the apt-get upgrade command is for a single package

	apt-get install --only-upgrade weston

Of course, at first I had tried

	apt-get upgrade weston

However this command ignores the package name and tries to upgrade everyting on my system.

I tried upgrading weston from testing or unstable and it claimed (falsely) that I had the latest version for some reason.

At a later stage I did managed to upgrade to Weston 4.
Now copy-paste works but it is still only works in some conditions and somewhat randomly fails.


## Sending an SMS using mmcli

When I plug my Android phone into my Linux Desktop, I can see a GSM modem device appearing. I can use that to get 4G on my computer. I had seen an article about sending SMS on Linux, and have been wanting to try this.

I will try to use `mmcli` which appears to me as a modern, user friendly and mainstream option.

This article outlines the procudure:

https://itgrenade.wordpress.com/2016/09/14/use-mmcli-for-sending-sms/

So basically:

List modems. Take note of modem # to use in the next command:

	mmcli -L

Create an SMS on modem # 0. Take note of the SMS # in the output:

	sudo mmcli -m 0 --messaging-create-sms="text='Hello world',number='+1234567890'"

Send SMS # 0:

	sudo mmcli -s 0 --send

This worked.

Then I tried to receive an SMS on the computer, but it seems that Android gets a hold of them and they never make it to Linux. I guess I'll need a dedicated GSM modem for this.


## Trying again with Jekyll

I still have not managed to get a list of pages on my Jekyll blog. I remember that I did manage this in the past, somehow.  

Now that I renamed the `entries` folder to `_posts` to comply with the Jeckyll naming scheme, I cannot display the blog posts directly anymore and am getting a 404 for almost anything. How unhelpful. I guess `_post` has a special meaning.

### Update: 6PM

OK, I after doing 1/2 hour of research, I came across [a blog article](https://blog.webjeda.com/jekyll-liquid/) by chance, which contains a warning:

>Liquid tags and objects may not work on a page if you have not defined front matter in it. At least blank front matter like this  
`---`  
`---`

There is no mention of this in the Jekyll or in the Github documentation.

I use this liquid code which I found in someone's gist:

```
{% for post in site.posts %}
	<h3><a href="{{ post.url }}">{{ post.title }}</a></h3>
	<p><small><strong>{{ post.date | date: "%B %e, %Y" }}</strong> . {{ post.category }} . <a href="{{ post.url }}"></a></small></p>
{% endfor %}
```

Finally the liquid markdown is parsed, but I am dissatisfied with the output. There is one entry missing, for some reason, and the links are unusable. All I get is two dates which I cannot click on.

I have noticed that my entries are now accessible using a URL such as /2018/10/09/. Yet instead of displaying the page in chrome, it triggers a download of an HTML file. I guess the content-type headers are incorrectly set.

I'm really not convinced with Jeckyll on GitHub pages. For debugging it, I'd need to install Jeckyll on my local machine, and it's not a straightforward process either. I tried on my Debian desktop and got an error.

So github pages nicely parses my `.md` files into pretty pages. Maybe it's best I limit my use to this functionality.

I guess I'll patch up something later on to generate an index.

## Investigating server bandwidth

I have noticed abnormal bandwidth usage on my server, for a while now. The servers hosts a couple of low-traffic and also serves as a mail server and a VPN. A while back I installed a few tools that I thought would help me monitor the traffic. Each tools gives me a bit of information, but it's still an unresolved puzzle.

`vnstat` is a command line tool. I like it, although it tells me that something is going on, but gives me no indication of the source. Here `tun0` is the VPN interface.

```
~$ vnstat

                      rx      /      tx      /     total    /   estimated
 tun0:
       Sep '18    307.57 MiB  /    4.19 GiB  /    4.49 GiB
       Oct '18     31.85 MiB  /  543.88 MiB  /  575.73 MiB  /    1.99 GiB
     yesterday      4.11 MiB  /   77.88 MiB  /   81.99 MiB
         today         0 KiB  /       1 KiB  /       1 KiB  /      --

 eth0:
       Sep '18     12.07 GiB  /   13.28 GiB  /   25.35 GiB
       Oct '18    962.27 MiB  /    1.29 GiB  /    2.23 GiB  /    7.95 GiB
     yesterday    127.61 MiB  /  179.10 MiB  /  306.71 MiB
         today     48.23 MiB  /   54.99 MiB  /  103.21 MiB  /     141 MiB
```


As you can see, 10GiB of inbound data in September does not sound right. I wonder if this includes portscans, brute force login attempts, etc.

So I do some research and learn that atop has a `netatop` modules and it can be made to record bandwidth usage for each process.

I follow [these installation instructions](https://www.reddit.com/r/debian/comments/991ov6/problem_installing_netatop/e4linhm). 

However the last step fails:

	Failed to enable unit: File netatopd.service: No such file or directory
	
There is no `netatop` service.. However I can still launch it manually:

	sudo /usr/sbin/netatopd
	
So I create a `netatopd.service` file in `/etc/systemd/system/` with the following contents:

```
[Unit]
Description=NetAtop Daemon

[Service]
Type=forking
ExecStart=/usr/sbin/netatopd

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

Now I can successfully enable it

	 sudo systemctl enable netatopd

Now I get networking statistics in `atop`! 

	sudo atop -n

At first I had tried 

	atop -n
	Kernel module 'netatop' not active; request ignored!
	
I did spend some time investigating this, before trying `sudo`. I didn't expect `atop` to need superuser privileges.

Anyway, watching the traffic, I periodically a simultaneous micro spikes in "unbound", "rspamd" and "redis" which seems to be related to email.

But really hardly any traffic unless I do something such as use webmail and send a big mail. So where did this traffic come from then?

To get a better idea of the relation between eth0 and tun0 traffic in vnstat, I run a test; I watch a youtube video on my phone through VPN whilst running `vnstat -l`

Here is what I get:

```
 tun0  /  traffic statistics
                           rx         |       tx
--------------------------------------+------------------
  bytes                     1.26 MiB  |       40.76 MiB

 eth0  /  traffic statistics
                           rx         |       tx
--------------------------------------+------------------
  bytes                    43.35 MiB  |       45.08 MiB
```
This capture lasted 9.2 minutes.

It makes sense: VPN traffic is counted on eth0 when it is received from youtube (rx), and then again when it is sent to the VPN client (tx).


